## UserManagement
#### Question 3.
Create new application with jsp pages, servlets etc to add/update/delete/list user information in the previous table. 

### View Code: [USER INFO](https://github.com/Alan0602/COOLMINDS/tree/main/ASSIGNMENT3/UserInfo)

#### Steps:

1. **Create Project Structure**
   - Create directories: `src`, `webapp`, `WEB-INF`.

2. **Set Up Database**
   - Create MySQL database `userdata` and table `users`.

3. **Database Connection**
   - Use JDBC for database connectivity.

4. **Add JDBC Driver**
   - Download MySQL JDBC driver and add to `lib`.

5. **Create Packages**
   - Create packages: `com.userpackage.create`, `com.userpackage.view`, `com.userpackage.update`, `com.userpackage.delete`.

6. **Create User Class**
   - Implement `User.java` with properties and getters/setters.

7. **Create User Servlet**
   - Implement `CreateServlet.java` to handle user creation.

8. **Create User JSP**
   - `createUser.jsp` form to collect user details.

9. **Implement View Servlet**
    - `ViewUserServlet.java` to fetch and display users.

10. **Create View JSP**
    - `viewUser.jsp` to display users in a table.

11. **Implement Update Servlet**
    - `UpdateUserServlet.java` to update user details.

12. **Create Update JSP**
    - `updateUser.jsp` to select and update user details.

13. **Implement Delete Servlet**
    - `DeleteUserServlet.java` to delete users.

14. **Create Delete JSP**
    - `deleteUser.jsp` to select and delete users.

15. **Use PrintWriter for HTML**
    - Use `PrintWriter` to generate HTML in servlets.

16. **CSS Styling**
    - Add `styles.css` for consistent styling.

17. **Setup Tomcat Server**
    - Deploy the project on Apache Tomcat.

18. **Run Server**
    - Start Tomcat server and access the application.

19. **Test Application**
    - Verify create, view, update, delete functionalities.

## Project Structure

```
- src
  - com.userpackage.create
    - CreateServlet.java
  - com.userpackage.view
    - FetchUserDetails.java
    - User.java
  - com.userpackage.update
    - UpdateUserServlet.java
  - com.userpackage.delete
    - DeleteUserServlet.java
- webapp
  - css
    - styles.css
  - WEB-INF
    - web.xml
  - createUser.jsp
  - viewUser.jsp
  - updateUser.jsp
  - deleteUser.jsp
```

## Database Connection Example

```java
Class.forName("com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver");



Connection con = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/userdata?useSSL=false", "root", "1234567890");
```

# Output:
## Create User

https://github.com/Alan0602/COOLMINDS/assets/100459334/9cb4d430-2cd7-4415-a35f-1e946159d217


## Update User

https://github.com/Alan0602/COOLMINDS/assets/100459334/80a0864d-2553-4caa-9586-66ee2b6c55c8


## Delete User

https://github.com/Alan0602/COOLMINDS/assets/100459334/f138ea7d-7e70-4dc8-986b-2f7b623b950a

